# Report

Oct 20th-He Zhuokun

### Generic and Scalable Framework for Automated Time-Series Anomaly Detection

This paper introduces EGADS, a generic and scalable framework for automated anomaly detection on large scale time-series data.

#### 1. Architecture

The EGADS consist of 3 main composition:

- TMM: the time-series modeling module
- ADM: the anomaly detection module
- AM: the alerting module

TMM models and produces an expected value which used by ADM and AM to compute the error and filter uninteresting anomalies respectively.

##### Scalability

The model should meet the requirements to be as small as possible and be precomputed as much as possible.

- Share models across multiple similar time-series
- Self-tuning model

#### 2. Anomaly Detection Algorithms

##### 2.1 Outlier Detection

- Plug-in methods

  Model the normal behavior of the time-series such that a significant deviation from this model is considered an outlier.

  Plug-in other time-series modeling and forecasting models like ARIMA and Exponential Smoothing.

- Decomposition-based methods

  Decompose the time-series into 3 components: trend, seasonality, noise. And the noise is outlier.

##### 2.2 Change Point Detection

Incorporate the plug-in approach to compute the sequence of residuals for an input time-series. Then, apply the absolute change point detection methods on the series of residuals to detect a change in the distribution of the residuals.

Such model-based change point detection methods are more useful than the absolute methods.

##### 2.3 Detecting Anomalous Time-series

Clustering the time-series into a set of clusters based on various time-series features including trend, spectual entropy, autocorrelation and etc.

#### 3. Alerting

##### 3.1 Threshold Selection

- Assume that the data is normally distributed with a well-defined mean and standard deviation and apply the statistical tool, 'three sigma rule'.
- For the case when the diviation metric is not normally distributed. To find out low density regions of the deviation metric distribution.

##### 3.2 Filtering

Filtering the anomalies to meet the consumers requirements.

#### 4 Experiment

- Modeling Experiments

  Compare the error metrics of different models when fitting time-series with different features and come up with the conclusion that time-series features have impact on model performance.

- Anomaly Detection Experiments

  Compare open source system against EGADS and there is no best anomaly detection model for all use-case.

  To deal with a wide variety of anomalies that are in the data, EGADS is built as a library that combines a set of anomaly detection models. The anomalies from these models are forwarded to the filtering component.

- Anomaly Filtering Experiments

  To address different users' requirements, the filtering stage scan all anomalies from all the models and use a model classifiered the certain anomaly is true positive.